[Music]
now you may strongly disagree with an
airline on what to call
food how hot it should be in the cabin
or how much space
a grown person needs for a three-hour
flight but there's one thing that both
you and the airline probably agree on
boarding the plane
takes way too long in fact nowadays
people are boarding planes for the
longest time in history
boeing did some research on the topic
and it turns out that
in the 1970s boarding time was only 15
minutes
these days though it takes about 30 to
40 minutes for
everyone to get to their seat and why is
that
well people today are trying to save
money so they take as many carry-ons as
they can
rather than pay for checked luggage i
mean how many times have you stood there
and waited for someone as they try to
cram a bag that's
way too big for the small overhead bin
oh if i had a nickel well it might be
just an inconvenient waste of time for
you it's a serious waste of money for
the airline
every extra moment the plane spends on
the tarmac
costs a small fortune one thousand
dollars a minute to be exact
so it's no wonder airlines keep testing
new ways of funneling the hordes of
passengers in their oversized or over
abundant bags
into the airplane today most air
companies use the back to front method
of passenger boarding
this way isn't just the most popular is
also the least efficient
in theory it should work just fine
passengers take their seats by
zones starting from the back of the
cabin and moving toward the front of the
plane
it makes sense since those whose seats
are in the back won't get in the way of
the passenger seated in the front right
no this method only leads to frustrating
bottleneck that occur in the isles when
all the passengers at once
try to push their carry-ons into the
same overhead
lockers as a result the line backs up
the aisle
onto the jet bridge past the gate
winding through the food court
and backward through security into the
white drop-off zone where you came in
well it's almost that bad anyways
everybody gets frustrated tired and
grumpy end of story
so how on earth did they do it in the
70s it all comes down to the baggage
fees we have these days
since few people are willing to part
with their money they just try to shove
their stuff
into one giant carry-on this leads to
more people clogging the aisles trying
to fit their oversized bags in the
limited space of the overhead locker
that we know already but why don't
airlines just let people check their
bags for free
this way passengers won't try to sneak
their massive carry-ons on board
and then waste precious time trying to
make them fit
no doubt this idea sounds great but
think about it
every year u.s carriers make more than
four billion dollars and check bag fees
would you be willing to give up that
kind of dough yeah
me neither some airlines have found an
interesting
though unpopular with passengers
solution they charge more for carry-on
bags than they do for check baggage
if you forgot to pay for your carry-on
you'll have to do it at the gate
and it may cost you a staggering 100 box
well this method seems to be working
since one of such airlines
claims that their boarding time is five
minutes faster than its competitors
yet that still doesn't solve all the
problems
let's try and figure out if there are
other more effective ways of boarding
the airplane
well for starters there's the outward in
boarding approach
mythbusters found this method to be the
fastest one yet
according to this approach passengers
who have window seats get on board first
after that the people with middle seats
get their turn
and finally people with aisle seats
board the plane
makes sense right but surprisingly even
after a few airlines adopted the outward
in approach their boarding times didn't
improve all that much
people still get stuck behind those who
insist
that on their previous flight that bag
fit in the overhead locker without any
problems
oh brother in 2014
a new approach appeared that's currently
considered the most efficient boarding
method
it was invented by astrophysicists dr
jason steffen
well no wonder it's so effective this
technique was dubbed
the stefan method not to be confused
with the stuff it method we're using now
and it's twice as fast as the back to
front boarding approach
and 20 to 30 percent faster than the
outside in seating method
according to the stefan method
passengers board from the outside in
they take seats in every other row and
the process starts at the back of the
plane
so first of all the airline boards
passengers with window seats in row 14
then in row 12 and so on until all the
window seats are occupied
then you do the same thing with
passengers that have middle seats
and last but not least are those with
aisle seats
this method works really great because
there's a buffer between rows
and nobody has to stop and wait until a
person in front of them finishes
fidgeting with their things okay
so why haven't all the airlines switched
to this method yet
well the main issue is that families
couples or friends
can't board together that's why it's
impossible to use the stefan method in
its
ideal form fair enough but what about
this approach
the order passengers board the plane in
depends on how much carry-on baggage
they have with them
from greatest to least besides every
passenger has their own strictly
assigned place in the overhead
compartment where they're supposed to
put their carry on
as a result the luggage gets spread
evenly throughout the plane
and it cuts the time people need to
board
[Music]
this approach does sound reasonable but
check it out
while all these super smart scientific
boarding methods are great in all
the most effective way to get your seat
has nothing to do with them
it's based on chaos yep you heard right
southwest airlines has been using this
method of boarding for decades
they just don't give their passengers
any assigned seats
although this open seating policy rates
low in passenger satisfaction
it does work if you're a passenger on
this airline
you'll get a boarding group and boarding
position after that
you just have to be fast to grab your
favorite seat
by the way what do you prefer window or
aisle seats are there even people who
prefer middle seats
let me know down below anyway
theoretically speaking
this method is bound to lead to a mad
dash for empty seats and utter chaos
but believe it or not it works smoother
than you think
consider this you prefer window seats
and as soon as you see one that isn't
occupied
you'll most likely push your bag into
the overhead bin and clean this seat
before someone else steals it quick easy
and efficient
just like getting on a bus
oh and there's one more thing about
southwest airlines that works in their
favor for fast boarding
it's one of the few airlines that don't
have check-in baggage fees
it means that fewer people try to fit
all their belongings in a carry-on
as a result this airlines average
boarding time is a mere 14 minutes and 7
seconds
which is 42 percent faster than the back
to front method most air companies favor
actually each airline seems to have its
favorite boarding method
for example virgin atlantic and american
believe that the more passengers board
at once
the better that's why they see people
more or less randomly
jetblue starts to board passengers from
the back and lets in
five rows at a time the airline admits
that it's not the fastest way to fill
the plane
but their passengers do like how
predictable and structured it is
asian carriers such as korean air air
china or japan airlines also use the
back to front approach
but in their case this method doesn't
slow boarding down
what's their secret typically asian air
companies have
wider airplanes with two aisles thus
people can board faster
for example korean air states that it
takes only 20 to 25 minutes
for 400 passengers to board an airbus
a380
but whatever boarding approach an
airline uses
it'll always have some delays at the
very beginning any guesses why
it's because they always invite their
top customers on board first and
foremost
first and business class passengers
frequent flyers
and those who have paid extra to be
among the first to get on board
usually sit in the first rows of the
plane so
while these passengers are getting
seated they slow down
everyone behind them of course you can
safely assume that no airline is going
to do anything to solve this issue
all that being said are airlines going
to implement a more time efficient and
smoother way to board an airplane
anytime soon
it'll probably happen someday but not at
the moment
so shuffle along and make new friends in
that boarding line
you'll have more than enough time for
that
which boarding method do you think is
the best sound off down in the comments
i think we're very close to a scoop them
up and shove them in method
alright let's return your seat backs and
tray tables to their full
upright and locked position remember to
give this video a like
share it with your friends and click
that subscribe button to stay
on the bright side of life
you